:Product: Forecast Discussion
:Issued: 2024 Jan 24 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was at high levels with several M-class flares observed.
Region 3559 (N27W09, Fki/beta-gamma) continued to be the largest spot
group on the visible disk. Region 3561 (S17W48, Dac/beta-gamma) gained
additional spots and was responsible for the majority of the M-class
flare activity, the largest of which was an M4.3 at 23/1640 UTC. The
rest of the ARs were unremarkable in comparison and relatively quiet.

Two CMEs of note originated from AR 3561 this period. The first was
first observed in NASA C2 coronagraph imagery at approximately 23/1724.
Modeling of this event suggests an Earth-directed component with an
arrival of 27 Jan. The second was first observed in NASA C2 coronagraph
imagery at approximately 24/0136 UTC. This event was modeled and
returned as a miss ahead of Earths orbit.

.Forecast...
Solar activity will likely continue at high levels, with M-class flares
expected and a slight chance for X-class flares, through 26 Jan
primarily due to the flare potential of ARs 3559 and 3561.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was at normal to moderate levels.
The greater than 10 MeV proton flux decreased to near-background levels.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to be at normal to
moderate levels on 24-26 Jan.

Theres a slight chance for the greater than 10 MeV proton flux to reach
S1 (Minor) threshold through 26 Jan - primarily due to the potential and
favorable location of AR 3561.


.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters became somewhat disturbed and enhanced; possibly
due to near-Earth transient influences. Total field reached peaks of 8
nT, and the Bz component underwent a prolonged southward deflection of
-5 to -6 nT from approximately 23/2310-24/0429 UTC. Wind speeds
gradually increased from near 400 km/s to ~455 km/s. Phi became
predominantly negative at 24/1936 UTC.

.Forecast...
The solar wind environment is likely to be periodically enhanced on
24-26 Jan due to the possibility of passage of multiple CMEs from 20 and
22-23 Jan.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field was quiet to unsettled with an isolated active
period.

.Forecast...
Periods of G1 (Minor) geomagnetic storms are likely, with a chance of
isolated G2 (Moderate) storm periods on 24-26 Jan due to the possible
impacts of several nearby passing CMEs. The first of these transients
was from a filament eruption on 20 Jan, while the rest of the CMEs were
from several events on 22-23 Jan.
