:Product: Forecast Discussion
:Issued: 2023 Feb 21 1230 UTC
# Prepared by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center
#
Solar Activity

.24 hr Summary...
Solar activity was moderate due to an impulsive M4.4 flare (R1-Minor)
event and an M4.7/SF flare at 21/1123 UTC. Nine sunspot groups were
present on the visible solar disk and X-ray background flux continued at
low C-class levels. New Regions 3232 (N10W85, Hrx/alpha), 3233 (N14W07,
Axx/alpha) and 3234 (N24E70, Dai/beta) were assigned. Region 3234 was
moderately active as it was the source of the aforementioned M4.4 and
M4.7 flares, however, the region was too foreshortened for an accurate
analysis. Regions 3232 and 3233 were unimpressive. Region 3231 (N21W58,
Dso/beta) underwent growth followed by some decay. Region 3229 (N26E13,
Ekc/beta-delta) changed little, but the minor delta configuration
weakened further. Region 3229 was the source of a few C-class flares.
The remaining regions were little changed and mainly inactive.

There were three notable CMEs observed during the period. The first was
off the NE limb and appears to be associated with a C1 flare from Region
3234, followed by an eruption off the NW limb that was associated with a
filament eruption. An additional eruption was observed in STEREO A
imagery off the SW limb. While initial analysis suggests none of these
are likely to be Earth-directed, WSA/Enlil modeling is ongoing at the
time of this summary.

.Forecast...
Solar activity is expected to be low, with a chance of M-class (R1-R2;
Minor-Moderate) flares and a slight chance of an X-class (R3; Strong)
event 21-23 Feb due primarily to the elevated flare probabilities of
Regions 3229 and 3234.

Energetic Particle

.24 hr Summary...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux was normal to moderate and the
greater than 10 MeV proton flux continued at background values.

.Forecast...
The greater than 2 MeV electron flux is expected to continue at normal
to moderate levels 21-23 Feb, with a chance for high levels on 23 Feb
due to CH HSS influences. The greater than 10 MeV proton flux is
expected to continue at background levels with a slight chance of a S1
(Minor) storm all three days, due primarily to the slight risk of a
solar energetic proton event.

Solar Wind

.24 hr Summary...
Solar wind parameters were indicative of the arrival of an anticipated
CME from 17 Feb. Total IMF strength was elevated and reached a peak of
14 nT late in the period. The Bz component varied but reached a
prolonged period of -10 to -11 nT late. Solar wind speed decreased from
early speeds near 475 km/s to 400 km/s by periods end. The phi angle
was predominantly in a positive sector.

.Forecast...
CME passage is expected to continue on 21 Feb. Later on 21 Feb, CIR
arrival ahead of a positive polarity CH HSS is anticipated. CH HSS onset
is forecast to occur shortly afterwards. CH HSS influences are likely to
continue on 22 Feb and begin weakening on 23 Feb.

Geospace

.24 hr Summary...
The geomagnetic field reached active levels with ongoing CME influences.

.Forecast...
The geomagnetic field is expected to be unsettled to active, with
isolated G1 (Minor) storm periods early on 21 Feb in response to varying
CME effects. Combined CIR and CH HSS effects are likely to result in
active conditions later in the day and into 22 Feb. There is a chance
for a few isolated periods of G1 (Minor) storm levels 21-22 Feb due to
transient and CH HSS related effects. CH HSS effects are expected to
weaken on 23 Feb and mainly quiet to unsettled conditions are forecast.
